Add lesson on working with Copilot (#3)
Ada-Developers-Academy/independent-ai-topics: working-w-copilot/copilot-in-projects-new-code.md

#  Copilot in Projects Pt. 1 - Writing New Code

## Goals

> We know how to generate code, start a chat, and work with Copilot's tools in VS Code, but what does it look like to apply what we've learned in a project? We'll mosey back to the [hello-books example project](https://github.com/AdaGold/hello-books-api) from Unit 2 to see how we can use Copilot to increase our productivity.

Reviewer: - for me, the question doesn't follow naturally from the things we've already seen, so rephrased to a statement
- removed explicit unit 2 reference
```suggestion
We know how to generate code, start a chat, and work with Copilot's tools in VS Code, so now let's see what it looks like to apply what we've learned in a project. We'll mosey back to the [hello-books example project](https://github.com/AdaGold/hello-books-api) to see how we can use Copilot to increase our productivity.
```

Our goals for this lesson are to show how we can use Copilot to:
- quickly write new code that follows a consistent format

> - help us with generating test cases 

Reviewer: - trailing space
```suggestion
- help us with generating test cases
```

## Writing new code with Copilot

> We will not be following the same path as Unit 2 did with `hello-books`. To keep things shorter and focus on areas where we can benefit from Copilot we will check out a couple branches and use the code at that state as an example to work from.

Reviewer: - avoided unit mention
```suggestion
We won't be following the same path as our previous visit with `hello-books`. To keep things shorter and focus on areas where we can benefit from Copilot we will check out a couple branches and use the code at that state as an example to work from.
```

> For now, we're going to start at the branch [`03a-models-setup`](https://github.com/AdaGold/hello-books-api/tree/03a-models-setup) so that the database connection is set up for us in our `__init__.py` and we have a single model class `Book` already existing. 

Reviewer: - trailing space
```suggestion
For now, we're going to start at the branch [`03a-models-setup`](https://github.com/AdaGold/hello-books-api/tree/03a-models-setup) so that the database connection is set up for us in our `__init__.py` and we have a single model class `Book` already existing.
```

Our plans in this section of the lesson are to:

> - Add the convenience methods `from_dict` & `to_dict` to the existing `Book` model 

Reviewer: - this is one plan with multiple steps
- trailing space
```suggestion
Our plan in this section of the lesson is to:
- Add the convenience methods `from_dict` & `to_dict` to the existing `Book` model
```

- Write tests for our new functions
- Create the `Author`, `Genre`, and `BookGenre` model classes.

### Adding convenience functions to `Book`

> If we open up the `Book` class, we should have the bare bones of a model defining 3 properties: `id`, `title`, and `description`. Our first step will be to add our `to_dict` function. To make GET requests easier, we know that we want a function that takes a `Book` model and converts it to a dictionary for us, so let's write a comment to that effect. Add the following comment to your `Book.py` file then press enter to see what Copilot suggests:

Reviewer: - reworded for directness
- file casing
```suggestion
Opening the `Book` class, we have the bare bones of a model defining 3 properties: `id`, `title`, and `description`. Our first step will be to add our `to_dict` function. To make GET requests easier, we know that we want a function that takes a `Book` model and converts it to a dictionary for us, so let's write a comment to that effect. Add the following comment to your `book.py` file then press enter to see what Copilot suggests:
```

> ```

Reviewer: - include py in quote
```suggestion
```py
```

# An instance function that returns a  
# dictionary which represents the book model
```

> In our case, Copilot immediately suggested a function signature and body that matched our needs for the moment:

Reviewer: - present tense for immediacy (feels more like the reader is following along)
```suggestion
In our case, Copilot immediately suggests a function signature and body that matches our needs for the moment:
```

![VS Code window showing the comment above along with a function suggested by copilot](assets/copilot-in-projects/book-to-dict-suggestion.png)  
*Fig. Our function description comment above with a suggestion for the `to_dict` function from Copilot in grey below*

> We could use a comment to try generating our `from_dict` class method, but instead we'll use the inline chat to prompt Copilot. Let's use `CMD + i` to open an inline chat and enter the following:

Reviewer: - key symbols
```suggestion
We could use a comment to try generating our `from_dict` class method, but instead we'll use the inline chat to prompt Copilot. Let's use `⌘I` (`CMD + i`) to open an inline chat and enter the following:
```

> Please write a class function that takes in a dictionary and returns a new Book instance created from the input dictionary's contents

> When we submit the prompt, we may see a response like:

Reviewer: The original is fine, but the suggestion might help strengthen the sense of variability in the result?
```suggestion
When we submit the prompt, we are likely to receive a response similar to the following:
```

![VS Code showing the Copilot inline chat with the prompt above entered and a function suggestion below](assets/copilot-in-projects/book-from-dict-initial-suggestion.png)  
*Fig. Our prompt entered in the Copilot inline chat with a suggestion for the `from_dict` function from Copilot in a temporary window below*

The suggestion is succinct and will create a new class instance for us from a dictionary, but is this what we actually want? What happens if the dictionary is missing `title` or `description` keys? Does this take advantage of the `autoincrement` feature of SQLAlchemy that we're using for the `id`?

> 

Reviewer: - I think a callout about `**` could be helpful in the moment. Yes, the reader could look it up if they don't remember, but that would take them out of the reading and distracts from the point.
```suggestion

### !callout-info

## Reviewing the `**` operator

The Python `**` operator unpacks the contents of a `dict` so that its keys and values can be used as named arguments to a function. In this case, Copilot has suggested a function that takes in a dictionary and uses the `**` operator to unpack the dictionary's contents into arguments to the `Book` class's `__init__` method, which will be called through the `cls` reference.

### !end-callout

```

> No, this isn't what we want! We have no error handling for missing properties, and this one-liner will set a Book's `id` to whatever is in the `id` key of the dictionary if it exists – the `id` property's `autoincrement` flag will be ignored. 

Reviewer: - tightened up the language around accessing the id
- em-dash
- trailing space
```suggestion
No, this isn't what we want! We have no error handling for missing properties, and this one-liner will set a Book's `id` to whatever value is in the `id` key of the dictionary if any—the `id` property's `autoincrement` flag will be ignored.
```

> We need a more robust function, so let's update our prompt. There are 2 significant features missing: error handling and utilizing `autoincrement`. 

Reviewer: - trailing space
- include br to push down the collapsed region
```suggestion
We need a more robust function, so let's update our prompt. There are 2 significant features missing: error handling and utilizing `autoincrement`.

<br />
```

<details>
  <summary>
    Take a moment to try adding to the original prompt yourself, then expand this section to see our updated prompt and what Copilot suggested.
  </summary>

> **Updated prompt:**   

Reviewer: - trailing spaces
```suggestion
**Updated prompt:**
```

> Please write a class function that takes in a dictionary and returns a new Book instance created from the input dictionary's contents. The function should include error handling for missing values and should take advantage of the autoincrement feature.

> **Suggestion from Copilot: ** 

Reviewer: - space within `**` prevented the bold from applying
```suggestion
**Suggestion from Copilot:**
```

```
@classmethod
def from_dict(cls, data):
    if 'title' not in data or 'description' not in data:
        raise ValueError("Missing required fields: title or description")
    return cls(title=data['title'], description=data['description'])
```

> Our final prompt doesn't change our initial sentence; we were able to add one new sentence that encapsulated our requirements, and all of a sudden we have a suggestion that meets our current needs! The method may not look exactly as we might have written it out, but if it bothers us or doesn't follow our team or project's conventions, we can always update the code after accepting the suggestion.  

Reviewer: - split the part about critically evaluating the result into its own paragraph
- slightly modified the potential words
- expanded with what some modifications could be
```suggestion
Our final prompt doesn't change our initial sentence; we were able to add one new sentence that encapsulated our requirements, and all of a sudden we have a suggestion that meets our current needs!

The method might not look exactly as we would have written it, but if it bothers us or doesn't follow our team or project's conventions, we can always update the code after accepting the suggestion. For example, we may need to modify the generated error string. Or perhaps seeing this code reminds us that we could watch for a `KeyError` rather than checking for individual keys in the dictionary. Copilot is not meant to replace our critical thinking, but it can help us get started on the right path!

```

Author: I really like the added examples to get folks thinking about what could be missing.

</details>

### Testing the Book class

> These functions aren't very long, but it's still a good idea to test them in case of any future changes to this class or related code. We'll use Copilot to help us get started on brainstorming unit tests from the inline chat.

Reviewer: - I tripped up on "in case of any"
```suggestion
These functions aren't very long, but it's still a good idea to test them as a baseline for any future changes to this class or related code. We'll use Copilot to help us get started on brainstorming unit tests from the inline chat.
```

> In our `Book.py` file, highlight the whole text, bring up the inline Copilot chat with `CMD + i`, then type in the shortcut `/tests`.

Reviewer: - file casing
- key symbols
```suggestion
In our `book.py` file, highlight the whole text, bring up the inline Copilot chat with `⌘I` (`CMD + i`), then type in the shortcut `/tests`.
```

![VS Code showing the full Book.py file contents highlighted with the Copilot inline chat bar showing and "/tests" typed in](assets/copilot-in-projects/book-slash-tests-start.png)  

> *Fig. Selected text in Book.py with the Copilot inline chat up to enter "/tests"*

Reviewer: - file casing
- de-italicized the file in the caption. I think I like it
```suggestion
![VS Code showing the full book.py file contents highlighted with the Copilot inline chat bar showing and "/tests" typed in](assets/copilot-in-projects/book-slash-tests-start.png)  
*Fig. Selected text in* `book.py` *with the Copilot inline chat up to enter "/tests"*
```

> Once we hit `Enter` Copilot will create a temporary section on the VS Code window with unit tests that we can review. 

Reviewer: - separate clauses
- trailing space
```suggestion
Once we hit `Enter`, Copilot will create a temporary section on the VS Code window with unit tests that we can review.
```

![VS Code showing the Book.py class and a temporary window where Copilot is previewing unit tests](assets/copilot-in-projects/book-slash-tests-suggestion.png)

> *Fig. Copilot's UI to preview tests for the Book.py file*

Reviewer: - file casing
- de-italicized the file in the caption
- include spaces after image
```suggestion
![VS Code showing the book.py class and a temporary window where Copilot is previewing unit tests](assets/copilot-in-projects/book-slash-tests-suggestion.png)  
*Fig. Copilot's UI to preview tests for the* `book.py` *file*
```

> If we feel like the tests presented are a good starting place, we can use the "Create" button to make a new file with those tests pre-populated. 

Reviewer: - trailing spaces
```suggestion
If we feel like the tests presented are a good starting place, we can use the "Create" button to make a new file with those tests pre-populated.
```

### !callout-warning

## Test File Location

> The "Create" button will generate the new test file in the current folder, in our case, in the same folder as our `Book` model. This isn't really what we want, but we can click the arrow next to the "Create" button to see a drop down with a "Create As" option. This will let us change the default name of the file and choose where it gets saved so that we can keep all of our test files together, separate from our source code. If you don't use "Create As", you can drag and drop test files from where they were created to the test folder at any later time.

Reviewer: - consistent voicing
- br to add space after the paragraph (callouts tend to squash space)
```suggestion
The "Create" button will generate the new test file in the current folder, in our case, in the same folder as our `Book` model. This isn't really what we want, but we can click the arrow next to the "Create" button to see a drop down with a "Create As" option. This will let us change the default name of the file and choose where it gets saved so that we can keep all of our test files together, separate from our source code. If we don't use "Create As", we can drag and drop test files from where they were created to the test folder at any later time.

<br />
```

> ![Close up of the Copilot window for previewing tests showing the drop down of options off of the "Create" button](assets/copilot-in-projects/book-slash-tests-create-as.png)  

Reviewer: - simplified phrasing
```suggestion
![Close up of the Copilot window for previewing tests showing the options drop down from the "Create" button](assets/copilot-in-projects/book-slash-tests-create-as.png)  
```

*Fig. "Create As" in the drop down next to the "Create" button*

### !end-callout

> We want to carefully review the tests that Copilot generates for things like missing cases or tricky edge cases. We may get lucky and have all of our bases covered, but we'll often want to add or update the tests slightly. In our case, Copilot came up with 3 tests that nearly have us covered:

Reviewer: - strengthened
```suggestion
We must carefully review the tests that Copilot generates for things like missing cases or tricky edge cases. We may get lucky and have all of our bases covered, but we'll often want to add or update the tests slightly. In our case, Copilot came up with 3 tests that nearly have us covered:
```

```
def test_book_to_dict():
    book_data = {
        'id': 1,
        'title': 'The Hobbit',
        'description': 'A book about a hobbit'
    }
    book = Book(**book_data)
    book_dict = book.to_dict()

>     assert book_dict == book_data

Reviewer: I feel a *little* uncomfortable letting this test slide without further discussion, though I understand it's a bit of a detour. What bothers me is that the `Book` class is being instantiated with an explicit `id` when we just talked about avoiding that in the `from_dict`. It's true that we're really testing the `to_dict` method here, and so however we arrange the `Book` for testing is fine, but I think that nuance is important and easily overlooked. Like I'm afraid that it would easy for the reader to not critically think about this suggested code before deciding that it's OK.

It might be a bit of a rabbit hole, but I wanted to a least bring it up.

Author: I feel like we can add an info callout to draw attention and folks can follow up in office hours or class if they have further questions.

Reviewer: I know it's not the focus here, but if you think it wouldn't be too distracting, a small callout would be great.

def test_book_from_dict():
    book_data = {
        'title': 'The Hobbit',
        'description': 'A book about a hobbit'
    }
    book = Book.from_dict(book_data)

    assert book.title == 'The Hobbit'
    assert book.description == 'A book about a hobbit'

def test_book_from_dict_missing_fields():
    book_data = {
        'title': 'The Hobbit'
    }

    with pytest.raises(ValueError):
        Book.from_dict(book_data)
```

> We have tests that ensure that for a given book model, the dictionary that `to_dict` creates contains the right data, and that a book created by `from_dict` stores the title and description from the input dictionary into the right properties. Our last test ensures that if the 'description' key is missing from the input dictionary that we raise an error, but what if the title is missing instead? 

Reviewer: - that/that tripped me up
- looked like the intention was for description to be a string? so I did that consistently for the keys. Maybe code quote? but it should be on both description and title.
- split the main idea (missing title test) to its own sentence
```suggestion
We have tests to ensure that for a given book model, the dictionary that `to_dict` creates contains the right data, and that a book created by `from_dict` stores the title and description from the input dictionary into the right properties. Our last test ensures that if the `"description"` key is missing from the input dictionary, we raise an error. But what if the `"title"` key is missing instead?

```

> To make our test suite as complete as possible, we can update the name of our last test to `test_book_from_dict_missing_description` and add one more test `test_book_from_dict_missing_title` to make sure we have that edge case covered. We can do this by hand, but feel free to try out highlighting the last test and asking Copilot to do that work for us!

Reviewer: - made action more explicit
- since we're going to do it, went stronger than feel free
- explicit br for space after paragraph
```suggestion
To make our test suite as complete as possible, we can update the name of our last test to `test_book_from_dict_missing_description` and add one more test `test_book_from_dict_missing_title` to make sure that we have this edge case covered. We can write the additional test by hand, but we can also try highlighting the last test and asking Copilot to do that work for us!

<br />

```

<details>
  <summary>
    Try it out yourself, then expand this section to see how we asked Copilot to handle the test updates.
  </summary>

>   **Updated prompt:** 

Reviewer: - trailing space
```suggestion
  **Updated prompt:**
```

  > Please rename this test to reflect that it only tests what happens if the description field is missing. Next, add a new test for the from_dict function that tests the scenario where the title is missing but the description is present

>   **Updated test and newly added test:**  

Reviewer: - trailing space
```suggestion
  **Updated test and newly added test:**
```

  ```
  def test_book_from_dict_missing_description():
      book_data = {
          'title': 'The Hobbit'
      }

      with pytest.raises(ValueError):
          Book.from_dict(book_data)

  def test_book_from_dict_missing_title():
      book_data = {
          'description': 'A book about a hobbit'
      }

      with pytest.raises(ValueError):
          Book.from_dict(book_data)
  ```
</details>

### Creating `Author`, `Genre`, and `BookGenre` models

> We can ask Copilot to help us write something even if we don;t have a template or example, but it's easier for Copilot to reason about what we want if we have samples to show. Here, we have a `Book` model that we can use as a pattern when asking Copilot to help us create the `Author`, `Genre`, and `BookGenre` models. 

Reviewer: - punctuation
- trailing space
```suggestion
We can ask Copilot to help us write something even if we don't have a template or example, but it's easier for Copilot to reason about what we want if we have samples to show. Here, we have a `Book` model that we can use as a pattern when asking Copilot to help us create the `Author`, `Genre`, and `BookGenre` models.
```

> Before we ask Copilot for help, the first thing we need to do is gather the requirements for our new classes. If we recall back to the Unit 2 lessons, we want our models to have the following properties:

Reviewer: - rephrased to avoid explicit unit
```suggestion
Before we ask Copilot for help, the first thing we need to do is gather the requirements for our new classes. In our previous work with these models, we gave them the following properties:
```

**Author**
- autoincrementing `id`
- string `name`
- a property to access `Books` associated with a particular `Author` instance

> **Genre** 

Reviewer: - trailing space
```suggestion
**Genre**
```

- autoincrementing `id`
- string `name`

**BookGenre**
- foreign key connection to the `Book` model
- foreign key connection to the `Genre` model

> Now that we're reminded ourselves of what the classes need to do, we can use these details to craft a prompt for Copilot. This time, let's use `CTRL + CMD + i` to open up the Copilot chat pane. We can type directly in the chat box, but it can be helpful to write up prompts in a text editor first, especially if they span multiple lines. 

Reviewer: - key symbols
- traling space
- br for space after paragraph
```suggestion
Now that we're reminded ourselves of what the classes need to do, we can use these details to craft a prompt for Copilot. This time, let's use `⌃⌘I` (`CTRL + CMD + i`) to open up the Copilot chat pane. We can type directly in the chat box, but it can be helpful to write up prompts in a text editor first, especially if they span multiple lines.

<br />
```

<details>
  <summary>
    Before continuing, pause for a moment and try to write a prompt that uses our class requirements to describe what we want from Copilot. When you're done, expand this section to see the prompt we used. 
  </summary>
  
  **Our Prompt:**
  > I would like help creating three more model classes that follow the same pattern as the Book class.
  >  
  > The first new model should be named Author and have 3 properties: an auto incrementing `id`, a string `name`, and a relationship to the Book model that back populates a property named `author`.
  >  
  > The second new model should be named Genre and have 2 properties: an auto incrementing `id` and a string `name`.

>   >   

Reviewer: - traling spaces
```suggestion
    Before continuing, pause for a moment and try to write a prompt that uses our class requirements to describe what we want from Copilot. When you're done, expand this section to see the prompt we used.
  </summary>

  **Our Prompt:**
  > I would like help creating three more model classes that follow the same pattern as the Book class.
  >
  > The first new model should be named Author and have 3 properties: an auto incrementing `id`, a string `name`, and a relationship to the Book model that back populates a property named `author`.
  >
  > The second new model should be named Genre and have 2 properties: an auto incrementing `id` and a string `name`.
  >
```

  > The last new model should be named BookGenre and act as a join table between the Book and Genre models.
</details>

Being an AI tool, we will likely see slightly different responses, even with the same prompt. When we submit our prompt, Copilot will create suggestions for us in the chat pane, and we are given some controls of what to do with that code. In the screenshot below, the controls from left to right are:
- Copy - add all the code to the clipboard to paste where you'd like
- Insert at Cursor - will add the code directly to an open file where your cursor currently is
- More Actions - When clicked will show a dropdown with the options below
  - Insert into New File

>   - Insert into Terminal

Reviewer: - bolded key terms
- made descriptions uniform
```suggestion
- **Copy** - adds all the code to the clipboard to paste where you'd like
- **Insert at Cursor** - adds the code directly to an open file where the cursor currently is
- **More Actions** - shows a dropdown with the options below
  - **Insert into New File**
  - **Insert into Terminal**
```

Before we make any decisions about where we want to put the code, let's examine what Copilot suggested for us.

> Sure, here are the three new model classes following the same pattern as the Book class:
> 
> ```
> class Author(db.Model):
>     id = db.Column(db.Integer, primary_key=True, autoincrement=True)
>     name = db.Column(db.String)
>     books = db.relationship('Book', backref='author', lazy=True)
>  
>     def to_dict(self):
>         return {
>             'id': self.id,
>             'name': self.name
>         }
>  
>     @classmethod
>     def from_dict(cls, data):
>         if 'name' not in data:
>             raise ValueError("Missing required field: name")
>         return cls(name=data['name'])
>  
> class Genre(db.Model):
>     id = db.Column(db.Integer, primary_key=True, autoincrement=True)
>     name = db.Column(db.String)
>  
>     def to_dict(self):
>         return {
>             'id': self.id,
>             'name': self.name
>         }
> 
>     @classmethod
>     def from_dict(cls, data):
>         if 'name' not in data:
>             raise ValueError("Missing required field: name")
>         return cls(name=data['name'])

> >  

Reviewer: - there are trailing spaces in this quote block, but if those came directly from the copy/paste, it's probably more work in the long run to keep them clean

> class BookGenre(db.Model):
>     book_id = db.Column(db.Integer, db.ForeignKey('book.id'), primary_key=True)
>     genre_id = db.Column(db.Integer, db.ForeignKey('genre.id'), primary_key=True)
>     book = db.relationship('Book', backref=db.backref('book_genres', cascade='all, delete'))
>     genre = db.relationship('Genre', backref=db.backref('book_genres', cascade='all, delete'))
> ```
> Please note that you need to add a foreign key field in the `Book` model to reference the `Author` model. Also, the `BookGenre` model is a many-to-many relationship table between `Book` and `Genre`. It has two primary keys, `book_id` and `genre_id`, which are foreign keys referencing `Book` and `Genre` respectively.

Overall, this is a solid start! The classes all meet the property requirements we outlined, the `Author` and `Genre` classes have the `to_dict` and `from_dict` convenience functions defined, and Copilot even gave us a heads up about the changes we'll need to make to the `Book` class for everything to work.

> However, the code isn't perfect – the Author and BookGenre classes are using a deprecated keyword `backref` whenever creating a relationship with another model. We want to replace the uses of `backref` with the `back_populates` syntax, and we also still need to update our `Book` class to work with these new classes. 

Reviewer: - I think semicolon is more appropriate here
- code quote the classes
- simplified the tense
- strengthen want to need
- trailing spaces
```suggestion
However, the code isn't perfect; the `Author` and `BookGenre` classes use a deprecated keyword `backref` when creating a relationship with another model. We need to replace the uses of `backref` with the `back_populates` syntax, and we also still need to update our `Book` class to work with these new classes.
```

> We can get help from Copilot with both of these tasks at the same time with a prompt like:  

Reviewer: - trailing spaces
```suggestion
We can get help from Copilot with both of these tasks at the same time with a prompt like:
```

>             raise ValueError("Missing required fields: title or description")
>         return cls(title=data['title'], description=data['description'])
>  
> class Author(db.Model):
>     id = db.Column(db.Integer, primary_key=True, autoincrement=True)
>     name = db.Column(db.String)
>     books = db.relationship('Book', back_populates='author')
>  
>     def to_dict(self):
>         return {
>             'id': self.id,
>             'name': self.name,
>         }
>  
>     @classmethod
>     def from_dict(cls, data):
>         if 'name' not in data:
>             raise ValueError("Missing required field: name")
>         return cls(name=data['name'])
>  
> class Genre(db.Model):
>     id = db.Column(db.Integer, primary_key=True, autoincrement=True)
>     name = db.Column(db.String)
>     book_genres = db.relationship('BookGenre', back_populates='genre')
>  
>     def to_dict(self):
>         return {
>             'id': self.id,
>             'name': self.name
>         }
>  
>     @classmethod
>     def from_dict(cls, data):
>         if 'name' not in data:
>             raise ValueError("Missing required field: name")
>         return cls(name=data['name'])

> >  

Reviewer: - another quote section with trailing spaces

> class BookGenre(db.Model):
>     book_id = db.Column(db.Integer, db.ForeignKey('book.id'), primary_key=True)
>     genre_id = db.Column(db.Integer, db.ForeignKey('genre.id'), primary_key=True)
>     book = db.relationship('Book', back_populates='book_genres')
>     genre = db.relationship('Genre', back_populates='book_genres')
> ```
> Please note that the back_populates option is used in both sides of the relationship and must refer to the other side's attribute name that defines the relationship.

> The updated code that Copilot displays is looking much better! The deprecated `backref` usage has been replaced and the `Book` suggestion has all the new properties we needed to create our one-to-many `Author` relationship and many-to-many `Genre` relationship. 

Reviewer: - trailing spaces
```suggestion
The updated code that Copilot displays is looking much better! The deprecated `backref` usage has been replaced and the `Book` suggestion has all the new properties we needed to create our one-to-many `Author` relationship and many-to-many `Genre` relationship.
```

> We can accept the code as-is, but there is still some room for improvement depending on our needs. There are properties like `name` that we might want to mark as required on some of our models. In the `to_dict` functions for `Book` and `Author`, we have some properties that aren't being included. 

Reviewer: - rephrased since the properties in question aren't instrinsic to those objects
```suggestion
We can accept the code as-is, but there is still some room for improvement depending on our needs. There are properties like `name` that we might want to mark as required on some of our models. In the `to_dict` functions for `Book` and `Author`, we may want to include some convenience properties that make use of our new relationships.
```

- For the `Book` class, it would be nice to also include the author's name and genres in the return dictionary.

> - For `Author`, it could be handy if the return dictionary included a list of the `title`s of the `Book` instances that the Author is associated with. 

Reviewer: I'd be careful about recommending that vector values be returned by default in the scalar data for an object. If we're going to make this recommendation, I'd include some reasons why it's OK to do so. Maybe something like the callout below?

> 

Reviewer: callout about returning vector values in the main to_dict
```suggestion

### !callout-warning

## Consider Including List Values Carefully

In this case, we're expecting that a particular book will have only a few genres related to it, and any given author will have written only so many books. If we were working with data where we expected a large number of related items, we might not want to include them in the basic `to_dict` function, which primarily serves the purpose of making it easier to return data for a GET request.

<br />

Instead, we might wait to return those lists until we're specifically asked for them from a related endpoint. In the GET response, we might include a count of the number of related items, and then the client could make a separate request to get the full list of related items if they wanted to.

### !end-callout

```

We could make the changes manually after moving the code to a file, but we can also ask Copilot to make these updates.

> 

Reviewer: - add space before detail
```suggestion

<br />

```

    def to_dict(self):
        data = {
            'id': self.id,
            'title': self.title,
            'description': self.description
        }
        if self.author:
            data['author'] = self.author.name
        if self.book_genres:
            data['genres'] = [bg.genre.name for bg in self.book_genres]
        return data

    @classmethod
    def from_dict(cls, data):
        if 'title' not in data or 'description' not in data:
            raise ValueError("Missing required fields: title or description")
        return cls(title=data['title'], description=data['description'])

  class Author(db.Model):
    id = db.Column(db.Integer, primary_key=True, autoincrement=True)
    name = db.Column(db.String)
    books = db.relationship('Book', back_populates='author')

    def to_dict(self):
        return {
            'id': self.id,
            'name': self.name,
            'books': [{'id': book.id, 'title': book.title} for book in self.books]
        }

    @classmethod
    def from_dict(cls, data):
        if 'name' not in data:
            raise ValueError("Missing required field: name")
        return cls(name=data['name'])
  ```
</details>

> Once we are happy with the presented code we can copy our updated `Book` and new `Author`, `Genre`, and `BookGenre` classes from the Copilot chat to their own files. From there we should wrap up our changes by updating the tests for our Book model with our new scenarios, and create tests for our new models – all on our own or with Copilot's assistance!

Reviewer: - additional comma? (a little weird either way)
- em-dash
```suggestion
Once we are happy with the presented code we can copy our updated `Book`, and new `Author`, `Genre`, and `BookGenre` classes from the Copilot chat to their own files. From there we should wrap up our changes by updating the tests for our Book model with our new scenarios, and create tests for our new models—all on our own or with Copilot's assistance!
```

## Summary

> Copilot can help make many code tasks move faster, as long as we use it with caution. There are many ways to prompt Copilot to suggest code, but however we are accessing Copilot in the UI, we need to make sure that we are giving Copilot enough context to meaningfully help us. That might mean making sure we have files open that Copilot can use as examples, or writing detailed prompts that cover the requirements of the code we want to generate. Copilot can help us with brainstorming test cases, but there is no guarantee that Copilot will suggest a complete suite that covers all of our important edge cases, so we need to review what's presented critically and expand the suite if necessary.

Reviewer: - tripped up on "but however"
- simplified tense
```suggestion
Copilot can help make many code tasks move faster, as long as we use it with caution. There are many ways to prompt Copilot to suggest code, but no matter how we access Copilot in the UI, we need to make sure that we give Copilot enough context to meaningfully help us. That might mean making sure we have files open that Copilot can use as examples, or writing detailed prompts that cover the requirements of the code we want to generate. Copilot can help us with brainstorming test cases, but there is no guarantee that Copilot will suggest a complete suite that covers all of our important edge cases, so we need to review what's presented critically and expand the suite if necessary.
```

## Check for Understanding

<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge
* type: checkbox
* id: 9100b9a2-b806-4b0c-94d2-5f1af5acf54b
* title: Using `/tests`

##### !question
Select the options below that we need to look out for when using the `/tests` shortcut.
##### !end-question

##### !options
* The tests being placed in the source file when accepted
* If Copilot brought in the right imports when referencing other classes or files
* A test file being generated in the source folder instead of test folder
* Whether the test assertions are assuming the correct kind of data
##### !end-options

##### !answer
* If Copilot brought in the right imports when referencing other classes or files
* A test file being generated in the source folder instead of test folder
* Whether the test assertions are assuming the correct kind of data

> ##### !end-answer

Reviewer: - we don't need to explicitly mention that they are options
- use labelled syntax
- For me, the first option was hard to understand. What if we just list 4 things that we should keep in mind?
- rephrased as questions (general consistency)
```suggestion
##### !question
What are some points to look out for when using the `/tests` shortcut.
##### !end-question

##### !options
a| Do the tests cover all of the edge cases we need?
b| Are the right imports included when referencing other classes or files?
c| Was the test file generated in the source folder instead of the test folder?
d| Do the test assertions assume the correct kind of data?
##### !end-options

##### !answer
a|
b|
c|
d|
##### !end-answer
```

### !end-challenge

> <!-- prettier-ignore-end --> 

Reviewer: - trailing spaces
```suggestion
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
```

#  Copilot in Projects Pt. 1 - Writing New Code

## Goals

We know how to generate code, start a chat, and work with Copilot's tools in VS Code, so now let's see what it looks like to apply what we've learned in a project. We'll mosey back to the [hello-books example project](https://github.com/AdaGold/hello-books-api) to see how we can use Copilot to increase our productivity.

Our goals for this lesson are to show how we can use Copilot to:
- quickly write new code that follows a consistent format
- help us with generating test cases

## Writing new code with Copilot

> We won't be following the same path as our previous visit with `hello-books`. To keep things shorter and focus on areas where we can benefit from Copilot we will check out a couple branches and use the code at that state as an example to work from.

Reviewer: - comma between clauses (espcially when inverted)
```suggestion
We won't be following the same path as our previous visit with `hello-books`. To keep things shorter and focus on areas where we can benefit from Copilot, we will check out a couple branches and use the code at that state as an example to work from.
```

For now, we're going to start at the branch [`03a-models-setup`](https://github.com/AdaGold/hello-books-api/tree/03a-models-setup) so that the database connection is set up for us in our `__init__.py` and we have a single model class `Book` already existing.

Our plan in this section of the lesson is to:

> - Add the convenience methods `from_dict` & `to_dict` to the existing `Book` model

Reviewer: - prefer "and" to & in regular prose
```suggestion
- Add the convenience methods `from_dict` and `to_dict` to the existing `Book` model
```

*Fig. "Create As" in the drop down next to the "Create" button*

### !end-callout

We must carefully review the tests that Copilot generates for things like missing cases or tricky edge cases. We may get lucky and have all of our bases covered, but we'll often want to add or update the tests slightly. In our case, Copilot came up with 3 tests that nearly have us covered:

```py
def test_book_to_dict():
    book_data = {
        'id': 1,
        'title': 'The Hobbit',
        'description': 'A book about a hobbit'
    }
    book = Book(**book_data)
    book_dict = book.to_dict()

    assert book_dict == book_data

def test_book_from_dict():
    book_data = {
        'title': 'The Hobbit',
        'description': 'A book about a hobbit'
    }
    book = Book.from_dict(book_data)

    assert book.title == 'The Hobbit'
    assert book.description == 'A book about a hobbit'

def test_book_from_dict_missing_fields():
    book_data = {
        'title': 'The Hobbit'
    }

    with pytest.raises(ValueError):
        Book.from_dict(book_data)
```

### !callout-warning

> ## Creating `Book` instances in tests

Reviewer: 👍 Nice callout for these concerns.

<br />

<details>
  <summary>
    Try it out yourself, then expand this section to see how we asked Copilot to handle the test updates.
  </summary>

  **Updated prompt:**
  > Please rename this test to reflect that it only tests what happens if the description field is missing. Next, add a new test for the from_dict function that tests the scenario where the title is missing but the description is present

  **Updated test and newly added test:**
  ```py
  def test_book_from_dict_missing_description():
      book_data = {
          'title': 'The Hobbit'
      }

      with pytest.raises(ValueError):
          Book.from_dict(book_data)

  def test_book_from_dict_missing_title():
      book_data = {
          'description': 'A book about a hobbit'
      }

      with pytest.raises(ValueError):
          Book.from_dict(book_data)
  ```
</details>

### Creating `Author`, `Genre`, and `BookGenre` models

> We can ask Copilot to help us write something even if we don't have a template or example, but it's easier for Copilot to reason about what we want if we have samples to show. Here, we have a `Book` model that we can use as a pattern when asking Copilot to help us create the `Author`, `Genre`, and `BookGenre` models.

Reviewer: - reworded to avoid claiming that Copilot "reasons" about anything
```suggestion
We can ask Copilot to help us write something even if we don't have a template or example, but Copilot tends to produce more relevant results if we have samples to show. Here, we have a `Book` model that we can use as a pattern when asking Copilot to help us create the `Author`, `Genre`, and `BookGenre` models.
```

>     def from_dict(cls, data):
>         if 'name' not in data:
>             raise ValueError("Missing required field: name")
>         return cls(name=data['name'])
>
> class BookGenre(db.Model):
>     book_id = db.Column(db.Integer, db.ForeignKey('book.id'), primary_key=True)
>     genre_id = db.Column(db.Integer, db.ForeignKey('genre.id'), primary_key=True)
>     book = db.relationship('Book', backref=db.backref('book_genres', cascade='all, delete'))
>     genre = db.relationship('Genre', backref=db.backref('book_genres', cascade='all, delete'))
> ```
> Please note that you need to add a foreign key field in the `Book` model to reference the `Author` model. Also, the `BookGenre` model is a many-to-many relationship table between `Book` and `Genre`. It has two primary keys, `book_id` and `genre_id`, which are foreign keys referencing `Book` and `Genre` respectively.

Overall, this is a solid start! The classes all meet the property requirements we outlined, the `Author` and `Genre` classes have the `to_dict` and `from_dict` convenience functions defined, and Copilot even gave us a heads up about the changes we'll need to make to the `Book` class for everything to work.

> However, the code isn't perfect; the `Author` and `BookGenre` classes use a deprecated keyword `backref` when creating a relationship with another model. We need to replace the uses of `backref` with the `back_populates` syntax, and we also still need to update our `Book` class to work with these new classes.

Reviewer: - keyword → named argument
```suggestion
However, the code isn't perfect; the `Author` and `BookGenre` classes use a deprecated named argument `backref` when creating a relationship with another model. We need to replace the uses of `backref` with the `back_populates` syntax, and we also still need to update our `Book` class to work with these new classes.
```

>     name = db.Column(db.String)
>     book_genres = db.relationship('BookGenre', back_populates='genre')
>  
>     def to_dict(self):
>         return {
>             'id': self.id,
>             'name': self.name
>         }
>
>     @classmethod
>     def from_dict(cls, data):
>         if 'name' not in data:
>             raise ValueError("Missing required field: name")
>         return cls(name=data['name'])
>
> class BookGenre(db.Model):
>     book_id = db.Column(db.Integer, db.ForeignKey('book.id'), primary_key=True)
>     genre_id = db.Column(db.Integer, db.ForeignKey('genre.id'), primary_key=True)
>     book = db.relationship('Book', back_populates='book_genres')
>     genre = db.relationship('Genre', back_populates='book_genres')
> ```
> Please note that the back_populates option is used in both sides of the relationship and must refer to the other side's attribute name that defines the relationship.

The updated code that Copilot displays is looking much better! The deprecated `backref` usage has been replaced and the `Book` suggestion has all the new properties we needed to create our one-to-many `Author` relationship and many-to-many `Genre` relationship.

> We can accept the code as-is, but there is still some room for improvement depending on our needs. There are properties like `name` that we might want to mark as required on some of our models. In the `to_dict` functions for `Book` and `Author`, we may want to include some convenience properties that make use of our new relationships.

Reviewer: - the hyphen in "as is" is optional, and seems less common than leaving it off
```suggestion
We can accept the code as is, but there is still some room for improvement depending on our needs. There are properties like `name` that we might want to mark as required on some of our models. In the `to_dict` functions for `Book` and `Author`, we may want to include some convenience properties that make use of our new relationships.
```

        return cls(name=data['name'])
  ```
</details>

Once we are happy with the presented code we can copy our updated `Book`, and new `Author`, `Genre`, and `BookGenre` classes from the Copilot chat to their own files. From there we should wrap up our changes by updating the tests for our Book model with our new scenarios, and create tests for our new models—all on our own or with Copilot's assistance!

## Summary

Copilot can help make many code tasks move faster, as long as we use it with caution. There are many ways to prompt Copilot to suggest code, but no matter how we access Copilot in the UI, we need to make sure that we give Copilot enough context to meaningfully help us. That might mean making sure we have files open that Copilot can use as examples, or writing detailed prompts that cover the requirements of the code we want to generate. Copilot can help us with brainstorming test cases, but there is no guarantee that Copilot will suggest a complete suite that covers all of our important edge cases, so we need to review what's presented critically and expand the suite if necessary.

## Check for Understanding

> <!-- Question 1 -->

Author: Remove question numbering comments

```suggestion
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge
* type: checkbox
* id: 9100b9a2-b806-4b0c-94d2-5f1af5acf54b

> * title: Using `/tests`

Reviewer: - use lesson title for challenge titles
```suggestion
* title: Copilot in Projects Pt. 1 - Writing New Code
```
